Proposal for limit all. (#167)
Bit-Quill/opensearch-project-sql: docs/dev/pagination-v2.md

> # Pagination in v2 Engine

Reviewer: I think we need to describe/link what the legacy engine is capable of. 
Then a reader will better understand what the Scope section includes.

<!-- Why is pagination necessary? -->
Pagination allows a SQL plugin client to retrieve arbitrarily large
results sets one subset at a time.

A cursor is a SQL abstraction for pagination. A client can open a cursor, retrieve a subset of data given a cursor and close a cursor.
<!-- What applications will use pagination? -->

> Currently, SQL plugin does not provide SQL cursor syntax. However, the SQL REST endpoint can return result a page at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, SQL plugin does not provide SQL cursor syntax. However, the SQL REST endpoint can return results a single page at a time.
```

Reviewer: Cursor syntax is just one part of the scroll API and only one part of 'pagination' feature.  We should be specific what the SQL plugin currently provides (in legacy - link please) vs what the SQL plugin should provide (new work) vs what the OpenSearch Scroll API provides in their REST API (link please)

JDBC and ODBC drivers are the main users of cursor REST API.

<!-- How will applications use pagination? -->

# Scope
<!-- What scenarios are excluded from this discussion? Why? -->

> The primary goal is to reach feature parity with the v1 engine. v1 engine suppors pagination only for simple `SELECT` queries with optional `WHERE` or `ORDER BY` clauses.

Reviewer 2: Should be "supports" not "suppors"
```suggestion
The primary goal is to reach feature parity with the v1 engine. v1 engine supports pagination only for simple `SELECT` queries with optional `WHERE` or `ORDER BY` clauses.
```

> ## Compatibility with v1 engine

Reviewer: We should have a schedule section too.  
Phase I (must haves) with a list of 'tasks'/'features' and github tickets that will get solved by this. 
Phase II (should haves) with a list of 'tasks'/'features' and github tickets that describe additional necessary pagination API features that are really needed for the experience. 
Phase III or (future work) with a list of items that are for the future.

<!-- How can one tell that v2 engine pagination is compatible with v1? -->

The REST API will remain the same. However, v1 cursors are a thin wrapper over OpenSearch's scroll API.
This is not possible with v2 engine because it may perform some processing in-memory

# Behaviour Specification
## Default Scenario

A client requests a paginated response, retrieves data a subset at a time, and closes the cursor.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    start[query, fetch_size > 0]
    fetch_some[get page]
    close[close cursor]
    start --> fetch_some 
    fetch_some --> |more data | fetch_some 
    fetch_some --> close
    
```
Each subset response also includes a possibly new value for `cursor_id`. Client must ensure
to pass the correct cursor id with each page request.

### Client submits request with non-existing cursor_id 

A client will receive an error response if it sends a request with a cursor_id that SQL plugin does not maintain.

This can happen when client requests a paginated response but the cursor times out before all the data is retrieved.

Response will include `error` and `status` fields.

## Unable to create a new cursor [new]

> SQL plugin will have a limit on number of open cursors.

Reviewer: How?  Where is this specified?  What happens if we exceed this number?  Is there a way to manage this number (manually close cursors)?  What about the timeout?  Can we specify this for the SQL plugin API when we create cursors or is it always defaulted to the default timeout (can this be configured).

A client will receive an error response when it requests a paginated response and the plugin reached the limit of possible open cursors.

# Implementation

## REST API
Initial query
```
POST /_plugins/_sql
{
    "query" : "...",

>     "fetch_size": N

Reviewer: isn't this defaulted?  Can we do a fetch call with an implicit fetch_size specified?

Author: If fetch_size is not specified, SQL plugin will not create a cursor.

}
```

Response
```
{
  "cursor": /* cursor_id */,
  "datarows": [
    // ...
    ],
  "schema" : [
    // ...
  ]
}

> ```

Reviewer: Include error state responses to fully define the API. 
e.g. 
Error state for "too many cursors".  
Error state for "invalid parameters - such as fetch_size too large" (can it be too small?)
Error state for providing a cursor with a query

Reviewer: The API should be defined here.  It's necessary for a detailed-design document and the API should be reviewed by our stakeholders.

Get page
```
POST /_plugins/_sql
{
  "cursor": "<cursor_id>"
}
```

> response is same as initial response.

Reviewer: We should start to define the error states here too.

Reviewer: Do we automatically close the cursor at some point? 
What happens when we reach the final page?

Close cursor
```
POST /_plugins/_sql/close
{
    "cursor" : "<cursor_id>"
}
```

Response
```json
{
    "succeeded": true
}

```
v1 engine always returns sucess on close even if the cursor is no longer alive as long as it recognizes cursor_id as a valid cursor identifier.

v1 engine responds with an error such this if cursor_id is not a valid cursor identifier.
```json
{
    "error": {
        // ...
    },
    "status": 400
}
```

### Non-scroll request

> For some queries, SQL plugin can fetch all data from OpenSearch at once.

Reviewer: What are the conditions to make this a 'non-scroll request' vs a 'scroll request'.  I thought the conditions were based on whether all the data was returned (ie no cursor is needed)?  But you seem to indicate this is based on whether the user sends the fetch_size in the query.

Reviewer: Dependent on the request by the user.  Got it.  Thanks.

# Pagination in v2 Engine

<!-- Why is pagination necessary? -->
Pagination allows a SQL plugin client to retrieve arbitrarily large
results sets one subset at a time.

A cursor is a SQL abstraction for pagination. A client can open a cursor, retrieve a subset of data given a cursor and close a cursor.
<!-- What applications will use pagination? -->

Currently, SQL plugin does not provide SQL cursor syntax. However, the SQL REST endpoint can return result a page at a time. This feature is used by JDBC and ODBC drivers.

> <!-- How will applications use pagination? -->

Reviewer: Make sure to mention that scroll IDs may get updated from request-to-request.

  end
  sql_client ->> sql_plugin: close cursor_id
  sql_plugin ->> sql_client: ACK close cursor
```

### Scroll-backed Requests

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant sql_client
  participant sql_plugin
  participant opensearch
  
  sql_client ->> sql_plugin: query with fetch_size
  sql_plugin -->> opensearch: scroll query
  opensearch -->> sql_plugin: subset of results and scroll_id
  sql_plugin -->> sql_client: subset of results and cursor_id
  loop while more data
    sql_client -->> sql_plugin: request a subset of results for cursor_id
    sql_plugin -->> opensearch: request a subset of results for scroll_id
    opensearch -->> sql_plugin: subset of results, new scroll_id
    sql_plugin -->> sql_client: subset of results, new cursor_id
  end
  sql_client -->> sql_plugin: close cursor_id
  sql_plugin -->> opensearch: close scroll_id
  opensearch -->> sql_plugin: ACK close cursor
  sql_plugin ->> sql_client: ACK close cursor
```

Scroll requests are resource intensive and are [not recommended](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/api-reference/scroll/) for frequent user queries.

Search after is a simpler API that can be used in these scenarios. 

> It does require query to use `ORDER BY` clause.

Reviewer 3: Sorry, what is "Search after"?
Why it require `ORDER BY` clause?

Author: [Search after](https://opensearch.org/docs/2.2/opensearch/search/paginate/#the-search_after-parameter) is one way to paginate results in OpenSearch but to use it the OpenSearch query needs to include a sort clause.

Technically we can pick a field to search on and use Search After API even for SQL queries that do not have an `ORDER BY` clause.
